# Generics Basics

Suppose a scenario.

You have a function that returns the same **type** of value it accepts.

You have three ways:
1. **Use param: `any`**: But that defeats the whole purpose, it stops type checks, no IntelliSense nor suggestion, and overall a bad practice.
2. **Manually define possible types**: Like `string | number | null` and then conditionally type check and do it. But that's not feasible.
3. **Use Generics**.

---

## What is a Generic?

It's basically a type variable or parameter. Basically saying when I pass the data, I'll pass its type with it (not predeclared).
At its basic, it's a variable or parameter to store the type.

### How to use Generics

First we define a function:

```typescript
function doSomething(value) {
    // return something or not
}
```

Then we annotate types:

```typescript
function doSomething<T>(a: T) {
    // return ... or not
}
```

- `<T>` defines generics (the syntax is just to keep it cohesive with C++ and other languages).
- The `T` inside `< >` is the type variable. `T` stands for Type (common practice, you could call it anything as well).
- `(a: T)` means: set the type of `a` to the type passed in the type variable.

That's it, generics.

### How to pass types when calling

```typescript
fn_name<type>(args)

doSomething<string>('hello')
```

If you do:
```typescript
doSomething<string>(12) // ERROR: 12 is not a type string
```

### Type Inference

A big benefit: you can leave TypeScript to infer generics based on simple values.

```typescript
doSomething(10) // TS auto infers 10 as number and sets T to number

doSomething('hello') // TS auto infers 'hello' as string and sets T to string
```

### Explicit Return Types

You can also explicitly mention, what type comes in, is what goes out.

```typescript
function doSomething<T>(a: T): T {
    return a;
}
```

### Multiple Generics

You can even have multiple generics (type variables).

```typescript
function doSomething<A, B>(a: A, b: B): void {
    // ...
}
```

> **Note:** For you to access specific type methods, you still need to type check the value with conditional statements.
